US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has left Qatar his last stop on a
diplomatic tour aimed at brokering a
ceasefire and hostage release deal
between Israel and Hamas in Gaza earlier
he spoke to qari leaders who have been
pivotal in trying to mediate the deal
Lincoln says Israel has accepted a new
bridging proposal but Hamas which
committed the October 7th Terror attacks
has accused Israel of making changes to
the proposal that go against what Hamas
agreed to last
month blinkin spoke to reporters before
flying out of Qatar he rebuffed media
reports that the Israeli leader Benjamin
Netanyahu had forced changes to the plan
including leaving Israeli troops in some
areas of Gaza the United States does not
accept any long-term occupation of Gaza
by uh by Israel um more
specifically the
agreement is very clear on the schedule
and the locations of IDF withdrawals uh
from from Gaza and Israel has agreed uh
to that let's get more now from
journalist kareim alari who joins us
from Cairo kareim the latest American
proposal aiming at bridging gaps between
the two sides that's still on the table
where do things stand now in
negotiations well doesn't look very
promising um Hamas is saying that they
want to go back to the Biden plan they
agreed to uh in July already and uh in
this package of the Biden plan there was
uh the possibility of a permanent
ceasefire and the full withdrawal of the
Israeli forces now Hamas is saying uh
that Israel is adding new terms to this
bridging proposal there is no more
guarantee uh for a permanent truce and
there is no full withdrawal of the
Israeli troops no matter what blinkin
just said commentators in the Arab media
saying that this deal that is suggested
by the US that is a good deal is in
reality a catastrophe for the
Palestinians so there is a lot of
pessimism on the Arab side also relative
Silence from the other mediators Carter
in Egypt about these suggestions um they
are far less it seems
enthusiastic than the us about this
briding
proposal so given what you just told me
kareim where do things go from here are
we expecting the talks to
continue well the blink mission is uh
finished but we will have talks in Cairo
with in day technical end political
talks um they have to fill enormous gaps
uh Netanyahu wants the option to
continue the Israeli offensive at a
later stage in case there's a ceasefire
he still talking about eliminating Hamas
and Israel wants to stay the Israeli
Army wants to stay in parts of the Gaza
ship uh that seems to be part of this
deal although blinkin just stated that
the United States does not accept any
long-term occupation by in by in by of
Gaza by is
talk to us a little bit about the
Philadelphia Corridor we're hearing a
lot about that kareim that's the Border
region between Egypt and Gaza Hamas and
Egypt are opposed to Israel keeping
troops there why is that such a divisive
issue well it seems that Netanyahu
convinced blink to put exactly this into
the bridging proposal that Israeli Army
will stay in the so-called Philadelphia
Corridor that's a corridor 14 kilomet
long that separates Egypt and the Gaza
Strip that is right now the Israeli Army
is present in this strip is present at
the Rafa border crossing um the Israelis
say they want to stay there because of
weapons smuggling of course that would
mean that the Israeli Army is going to
be fully surrounding the Gaza Strip even
after uh a Seas f fire deal Egypt is
opposed against this because they say
it's violating actually terms of the
Camp David peace agreement that's the
oldest peace agreement between Arab Arab
State and Israel from 79 between Egypt
and Israel um there is talk now of maybe
some other Alternatives talk about some
uh International Presence at this Border
strip or maybe some kind of highte
proposal I think that probably will be
part of the nego of the upcoming
negotiations in
Egypt tell us what's writing on this
deal in terms of the regional
implications kareim because there's are
massive tensions uh between Israel and
its neighbors including with Hezbollah
in the the north uh in Lebanon but also
Iran is a big player in the background
here what what are the implications of
this deal if it falls apart or if
negotiations continue
well basically everyone is waiting for
the answer of Iran and hisbah after the
killing of the head of Hamas is Han in
tan and the killing of a high ranking um
military commander of hisa in Beirut for
shuk um it seems like this answer is on
hold they are waiting now what's coming
out of this uh peace of of this
ceasefire negotiations if the ceasefire
negotiations are successful they will
say this is part partially because of
our pressure uh coming from this
possible answer if not they might strike
at a later date but it gives of course
this talks upcoming talks in Ciro an
urgency that is recognized by Israel is
recognized by and also recognized by all
the
mediators Kim thank you very much for
your insights that was journalist Kareem
elari in
cirra you're welcome